

> The victim is killed once, but a crime scene can be murdered a thousand times.


# Summary


## Characters

- Latonya Kim Wallace 
- Tom Pellegrini
    > Tom Pellegrini had nine years on the force when his transfer to homicide was finally approved, nine years of wondering whether police work was truly a calling or merely the latest meandering in what had become a lifetime of detours. He was born to a coal miner in the mountains of western Pennsylvania, but his father— himself the son of a miner— left the family when Pellegrini was a boy. After that, there was nothing to bind them. Once, as an adult, he had gone to see his father for a weekend, but the connections he had been looking for simply weren’t there. His father was uncomfortable, his father’s second wife unwelcoming, and Pellegrini left that Sunday knowing that the visit had been a mistake. His mother offered little solace. She had never expected much of him and from time to time she actually came right out and said so. For the most part, Pellegrini was raised by a grandmother and spent summers with an aunt, who took him down to Maryland to see his cousins.

    Simon, David (2007-04-01). Homicide: A Year on the Killing Streets (p. 94). Henry Holt and Co.. Kindle Edition. 

- The Fish Man

# Cases

~~~yaml

victim: 
  name: Latonya Kim Wallace 
  age: 11
  sex: F
causes:
  - strangulation
  - stabbing
time_of_death_estimate: 12 hours

primary: Pellegrini
secondary: Edgerton

~~~


# Glossary




# Questions

- List everyone who is interviewed
- Why is the presence of foreign hairs considered to be the least valuable of trace evidence?
- What is the code of the street that is abandoned?
- What is the one authority that a detective has over patrolmen and even the commissioner? 
- What is the detectives' Holy Trinity?
- What part of a murder case is mostly irrelevant to the detective yet part of popular culture for homicide cases?
- What is the best kind of homicide scene, from a detective's point of view?
- What are the reasons for detectives to withhold details about a case from the public record?
- What is the detective's first step after taking over from the first officer at a scene?
- What does "Assumption is mother and midwife to the most egregious mistakes" refer to?
- Why must a detective be able to "discern the differences among probabilities, possibilities and the weakest kind of long shots"?
- How were homicide detectives selected after standardized testing was done away with? How did Pellegrini get appointed to a CID homicide?




# Passages

## Explanation of time-of-death estimate

> Without a time-of-death estimate based on body temperature, a medical examiner is aided only by the degree of rigor mortis (the stiffening of the muscles) and lividity (the settling and solidification of blood in the dependent parts of the body). But the rate at which any postmortem phenomenon occurs can vary widely, depending on the size, weight and build of the victim, the external temperature of the body at the time of death and the temperature or conditions of the death scene. Moreover, rigor mortis sets and then disappears, then sets again in the first hours after death; a pathologist would have to examine the body more than once— and hours apart— to assess the true status of rigor correctly. As a result, detectives seeking time-of-death estimates have become accustomed to working within a spread of six, twelve, or even eighteen hours. In cases where decomposition has begun, the ability of a pathologist to determine time of death is further impaired, although the onerous task of sizing individual maggots taken from the body can often bring the estimate to within a two- or three-day span. The truth is that medical experts can often provide no more than a rough guess as to a victim’s time of death; coroners capable of telling Kojak that his victim stopped breathing between 10: 30 and 10: 45 P.M. are always a source of amusement for cops slumped in front of the tube on a slow nightshift.

Simon, David (2007-04-01). Homicide: A Year on the Killing Streets (pp. 65-66). Henry Holt and Co.. Kindle Edition. 



### Foreign hairs

The presence of foreign hairs is carefully noted, but in Baltimore at least, homicide detectives have come to regard that kind of trace evidence as the least valuable. For one thing, the crime lab can only on rare occasions— usually those involving distinctly colored caucasoid hairs— match beyond any reasonable doubt a recovered strand with a suspect.

Simon, David (2007-04-01). Homicide: A Year on the Killing Streets (p. 68). Henry Holt and Co.. Kindle Edition. 


### Importance of evidence

Without physical evidence, there is only stalemate.

Simon, David (2007-04-01). Homicide: A Year on the Killing Streets (p. 75). Henry Holt and Co.. Kindle Edition. 


### Indoor vs outdoor

Not only are the opportunities for recovering physical evidence fewer, but the spatial relationship between the killer, the victim and the scene is obscured. With an indoor murder, the killer and victim can both have discernible connections to the location; out in the street, a detective can’t check utility bills or rental agreements to learn the names of people associated with his crime scene.

Simon, David (2007-04-01). Homicide: A Year on the Killing Streets (p. 76). Henry Holt and Co.. Kindle Edition. 


### Discretion

Discretion and common sense are valued as much as diligence, and a detective unable to discern the differences among probabilities, possibilities and the weakest kind of long shots soon finds that he risks overloading the evidence recovery process.

Simon, David (2007-04-01). Homicide: A Year on the Killing Streets (p. 79). Henry Holt and Co.. Kindle Edition. 


### Pellegrini's choice

He wanted to be one of the people who live by finding the right door. Some other cop could have the job of kicking it down.

Simon, David (2007-04-01). Homicide: A Year on the Killing Streets (p. 97). Henry Holt and Co.. Kindle Edition. 

